the United States has authorized a
multi-billion dollar weapons package for
Israel according to several media
reports it comes as President Joe Biden
publicly acknowledged the pain being
felt by Arab Americans over the war in
Gaza he has also faced criticism by some
in his own Democratic party the decision
follows a visit by Israeli defense
minister yav Galant to Washington this
week the new arms package is meant to
include 1,800 of the most destructive
bombs used in Gaza the house deined to
comment com and we look forward to a
great discussion let's talk about this
with journalist and Middle East expert
Daniel gak Daniel the US says it's
concerned about Israel's conduct in Gaza
why then said it
£2,000 bombs which are highly
destructive especially in densely
populated areas like
Gaza yeah that is a contradiction that
is being discussed in the American Media
a lot um apparently the Biden
Administration doesn't see a
contradiction here because it says it
provides these weapons not to prime
minister netan with whom they have a
difficult relationship at the moment and
who is like of course calling the shots
in the Gaza operation but that they're
providing this for Israel's security I
think for the Biden Administration
they're in a way in a lose lose
situation because it's a support for the
Israeli um military on the one hand and
then its um its opposition to the
behavior of the Netanyahu government on
the other uh leads it into to a
difficult situation to a quack mire
netan has has has successfully lobbied
congress not only the Republican party
but also the Democrats for many years
and uh he's now cashing in on on on on
what he had been successfully doing over
the last decades and on the other hand
of course Joe Biden has opposition
inside its own party many Young
Americans not only Arab Americans uh
young people in this country see that uh
there is a contradiction in these
policies and if you drive around here in
uh in America you would probably see at
the freeway a billboard which says your
taxpayers money kill uh kills children
in Gaza so uh this is a difficult
situation and uh Biden seems not to be
handling it very well and Joe Biden is
also facing criticism for his failure to
stop uh Israel's campaign in Gaza what
leverage does he have with Benjamin
Netanyahu when you say that their their
relations are difficult right
now he he would probably argue that
um America so far succeeded in delaying
the Rafa operation because whereas
Netanyahu has announced it's going to
happen soon and we will do it uh and
America said please don't do it please
don't do it the way you have done it in
Gaza if you need to operate militarily
in Rafa apply a different tactic a
different strategy protect the civilians
and provide also a tangible strategy uh
for the day after uh Biden would say
netan has not implemented this so far he
has made many announcements and of
course the the war is going on but he
hasn't done the ground operation in Rafa
to the extent that they have operated in
Gaza and Khan yunes and other places in
the Gaza Strip so he would say that this
is our Merit and of course if you look
at the behavior of the United States at
the recent uh United Nations security
Council resolution where they abstained
uh in face of an unanimous vote in in in
favor of a ceasefire then you can say
okay the Americans are applying some
pressure on Netanyahu but Netanyahu is
called of course calculating that he
might not be ousted before President
Biden is Ed because he definitely
invests in a republican victory in the
next presidential election and Donald
Trump would be his favorite candidate
Daniel thank you very much for your
analysis Daniel gak there uh joining us
from San Francisco I believe is that
right yeah thank you thank you man ni to
see you again sir J feein is with the
Middle East Institute of Washington DC
and is a former US ambassador to Yemen I
asked him how badly he thinks Israel
needs these
weapons well the uh the issue of course
is that some of the weapons uh that are
included are the Munitions that are
included in the package uh according to
the Press reports are these 2,000lb
bombs uh that the uh that the Israelis
have been using in their Gaza campaign
uh that that allegedly are the source of
some of the mass casualty events uh that
we've seen uh over the course of the
past uh several months and so uh the the
Israelis are clearly using them uh and
there are a lot of people who are
unhappy about about the use and will'll
be unhappy that the administration is
sending more well if this is confirmed
uh this weapons package comes despite
the US expressing concern over Israel's
conduct in Gaza as you are citing now
and supporting a ceasefire how is the
White House handling this Balancing
Act well your your question is exactly
right it is a balancing act that the
administration is trying to uh to
achieve uh where on the one hand they
are uh pressing the Israelis more
aggressively uh to uh bring down the the
level of violence and to and to find
ways to to achieve a ceasefire and yet
at the same time they don't want to be
in a position where they are uh are not
providing Israel with the defense
mechanisms or or or defense equipment
that it says it needs so uh they are
pursuing a course that's probably making
both sides unhappy it's a sensitive
political landscape in the United States
right now I don't need to tell you that
how would this affect Joe Biden's
popularity during this presidential
campaign
season well it's uh he's already
suffering uh of course because of the
unhappiness with the uh with the US
green light Israeli military operations
in Gaza uh and uh I think that it's
going to increase uh the unhappiness and
the pressure on him uh when uh when
people see that even though the US has
supported calls for an immediate
ceasefire we're continuing to provide
Israel with more and more Weaponry that
they need or want to pursue their
military operations particularly uh in
Rafa again Gerald firin with the Middle
East Institute speaking to me
earlier